Scott Summers here X course we tried x'
continuing on with the banded x project
we are down in Snyder racing cams
talking to Kevin Cantrell we're going to
get a cam for the Pontiac 455 and I
think I think we're actually gonna go
with a roller cam on this one so what
kind of information gonna need from us
first and foremost excellent choice on
the roller cam some people out there
might not be sure on what a roller cam
is versa a traditional-style cam the
lifter rides on the surface of the cam
as you can see right here and the
lifters gonna ride right here if it's a
roller type it's got a roller bearing on
there it's like a wheel definitely more
efficient that's why we all drive cars
with wheels instead of having slaves you
know so in an old flat tappet slides on
there a lot of friction you don't want
that so definitely good choice of the
roller a few things we're gonna need to
know is that you know compression ratio
of the engine what heads you went with
how those heads flow whether they're
iron or aluminum you know a lot of
technical data that usually I mean if
you're building the car you should
really know what's in your engine you
know you don't want it to be buying the
crate engine if you're gonna be putting
a custom cam in it anyways so you know
definitely want to know how you're going
to be driving it rear rear gear ratio of
the vehicle tire size transmission
choice like that but the biggest factor
is how you plan on driving the vehicle
what you want the vehicle do it's you
know how you want to perform what you
expect out of it and that's basically
what I'm gonna need to know
so Kevin I see we got a couple different
cams here on the counter and some
lifters what's what's the difference
between the two well earlier I was
talking a little bit about flat tappet
verses or rollers have a cam here in my
hand I have what we call a flat tappet
or slider lifter and they roll here
there's a flat Tabak handy as you can
see the lobe the profile lobes can be a
little pointy ER and the cam the lifter
is going to travel along the surface
like this as the lifter moves up and
down according to the duration and the
lift on the cam two things we need to
talk about that's going to move the
valve open or it's gonna move the the
rocker and turn push rod in the valve
open and close and that's going to
determine how much fuel goes in and out
of the engine
how much fuel and air in and how much
exhaust out and ultimate you know an
engine is basically a big air pump the
more fuel that goes in the more power
it's going to make and the more exhaust
that's then going to need to go out here
with the roller again we were talking
about the efficiency these are both
small-block Chevy camshafts by the way I
chose a two of the exact same a flat
tappet or roller just so you can see the
difference here's a factory roller
lifter
here aftermarket ones these lifters are
gonna slide along this so as you can see
it's going to roll here and that's gonna
reduce friction therefore adding power
or robbing less power roller type of
cams interesting thing as well since it
is a roller you're actually able to have
a lot more lift and duration or
throughout the curve which gives you
more power throughout the entire rpm
range do people have more of a choice on
with going with a roller then than they
do with a flat tappet as far as like the
performance and all that oh I'd say it's
a exponentially different with with a
roller type tap it again you're not
limited by lift I mean like with a
because of with the old flat tab it's
the lifter here excuse me the lifter
here will ride and if you have too much
lift or duration or rather too much
duration and not enough lift or too much
lift and not enough duration the lifters
gonna start hooking on the edge of the
on the edge of the load so you need to
run a really big lifter in order to make
that work now with a with a roller type
you don't have that it's just gonna ride
throughout the earth for the entire
range so you and we have people with you
know very very short duration cams so
running lots and lots of lifts so before
you couldn't do that with a flat top but
it's it's really nice and it makes it
convenient for a lot of people to get
exactly the cam they want whereas with a
flat tablet they would be limited so can
you actually spin higher rpms in with a
roller can than you can't a regular flat
tappet
you know that the camshaft type doesn't
really determine the RPM range but there
is some truth to that
a the biggest limiting factor with a
camshaft and rpm range is the lifter
type these are both solid lifters all
type of lifters a hydraulic type lifter
has a hydraulic actuated valve inside
and they're going to pump up so you
don't ever have to adjust your valves
really nice really can be for average
driver but there are PM limited because
the lifters are heavier a solid type you
will have to adjust your valves more
often but they're more for serious
performance or you know hey I really
don't mind going out and wrenching on my
car every other couple weekends to you
know make sure my valves are all staying
you know steady and staying right but
with that you get high rpm range I mean
I have friends and associates that they
Rev their engines up to 9,000 rpm I mean
granted you do need the parts
in order to have the inch and survived
up to that point but yeah I mean it's
definitely possible we're worse with a
hydraulic roller which is what I
personally put in my car cuz I'm a
little lazier I like to spend my
weekends with my wife and actually
driving my car I put a hydraulic roller
in there and I don't really plan on
Revenue past sixty-five hundred and I'm
okay with that so it all depends on
again how you plan on driving your car
and what you want out of it